What was to put?
Poner.
I was putting the line in the past.
Ponia.
Good.
Now, if you want to say I put the point in the past, I put.
In the past.
Of course, in English it's doesn't change.
I put present.
I put past.
I put for the past.
Our base is pus.
Puss.
P-U-S.
So how would you say I put?
Puse.
The endings don't take the accent here for these irregular verbs.
You put informally.
Pusiste.
Where did you put it?
Donde lo pusiste.
Good
And now we can see where that poner pos was coming from.
We said that when we have poner as part of a verb in Spanish, it's
pose in English componer compose exponer expose opponer oppose and now we hear this pose sound coming out in the dot in the past puse pusiste
What was to to do or to make?
I said.
The base here in this point in the past is ESHIC
So if you want to say I made or I did, he said, and he made or he did.
Isa.
Here it would be H-I-Z-O.
We can't keep the C because it would spell Iko.
Iso.
They made or you guys made?
Isieron.
Good.
Whenever you identify one of these irregular verbs in the point in the past where the base of the verb has changed, then you know what to do with it
That A and O is coming from R, and then you have Emo sisteron from Air Eir
Sometimes the change is subtle.
We saw that pod of Poder became Pud.
We saw in another lesson that Ab of Aber became Ub.
Ven of venir becomes vin.
So how would you say I came?
Vin.
And he came
Vino.
You know how to say wine in Spanish?
He came with wine?
Vino con vino.
Traer to bring has Trache, I brought in the past.
So how would you say he brought?
Tracho.
Good.
We brought
Trachi Trachimos?
Trachimos.
And I brought again?
Trache.
And Trache also means suit, like the kind you wear and it's masculine.
So I brought a suit would be
Traje un traje.
There's one extra irregular past point to look at.
It's extra irregular because it doesn't really follow these rules about what groups it's taking the sounds from, and it's also extra irregular because it is the past for both
Sir and IR.
It is the past for both I was and I went
And this is phi.
F u i phi.
Fui.
So phi means I was from ser point in the past.
And it also means I went.
So ser and ir in the point in the past, they share a past.
Fui means I was or I went.
And fwe means he was, she was, it was, you were, or went.
So we see that it's extremely irregular.
Fui I was or I went.
How would you say I didn't go?
No fu.
Fui he was or he went.
How would you say he didn't go?
No fue.
How would you say we went?
Good.
And you informal?
Fuiste.
Now to make they or you plural was or went, we would add on ieron, but we will find it very difficult.
to pronounce fuyeron, fuyeron.
So the I sound, the I fell away.
So how would that sound?
Fueron.
So the I, the E sound, falls away.
The same thing happens in a couple of other cases too.
We have
Trajeron from Traer to bring they brought you guys bought Traheron Tigeron they or you guys said
So a couple of other examples there of that eye falling away just for sound reasons.
Trachieron, dicheron is
kind of difficult to say.
So it fell away for efficiency.
Dijeron, trajeron, fueron.
So now that we have fueron, we can make
the past mood tense.
We can say something like if I were you because we always go from the they form of the point in the past.
So if they went or they were is fueron, we can say if I were you.
And of course we're using the mood tense here because we have if going into the past
hypothetically.
So this is a moot tense that's quite specific for the past.
We're not putting the mood tense after C, after if in the present, but for this hypothetical past.
If I were you, there we have it.
In English as well as in Spanish.
We said that if I were you instead of if I was you is mood tense in English.
So how would that be?
If I were you
Fueron becomes fueron.
Good.
And the I version is fuera.
Si fuera.
Ti.
Now it's just the word for you.
Tu.
Tu o usted, depending on who we're talking to.
So si yo fuera tu.
Si fuera tu, o si yo fuera tu, si yo fuera usted, if I were you.
Now we're understanding why we went from the lay version to find
the mood tense in the past.
Because going from the they version instead of the to form means that if there is some irregularity, we will transfer that irregularity over into the mood tense.
So we went from fueron to fuera and we would go from for example dijeron they spoke
to Tiger so we carry over that irregularity of having lost that eye Tracheron The Brood and then Trachera for the mood tense
I had was tube.
What was they had or you guys had?
Tuvieron.
Tu vieron.
So now we can say if I had it
I would tell you.
If I had it, I would tell you.
Silotuviera?
I would tell you.
You can use contar.
Desir is very irregular for for wood.
So if you don't want to deal with that now, imagine you're in a real-life context, you can just go to the more regular verb, which is contar, I would tell you, informally.
Te contaría.
Good.
Si lo tuviera, te contaría o te lo contaría.
I would tell you it.
We like to close with this it in Spanish a lot.
Si lo tuviera te lo contaría.
I would tell you it's good
So going from this they form of the point in the past, we can easily find the mood tense in the past even if the verb is irregular.
So we have to do or to make, which is a ser.
And we said that the root for the point in the past is is, h-I-C for the I version.
So how would you say I made or I did?
Ise.
Ise and they did or they made?
Isieron.
Good.
So you could say, I wanted for them to do it.
I wanted that they did it.
Good.
I wanted them to do it.
I wanted that they do it.
How would you say I wanted for us to do it?
I wanted that we do it.
That we did it.
Caria Ke Lo Isieramos.
Good, well done.
Good.
I'm not as interested here in installing, let's say, all of this content, all of these irregular verbs.
What I want to give you is an exposure
To how they might work, the irregular verbs that you can come across, so that practicing you can manage them.
So you should not be afraid of making mistakes, you should build the verbs
how you're used to and if you suspect that this one might be irregular check check with the person that you're speaking to